React router update (#11)
learn-co-curriculum/react-hooks-react-router-code-along: README.md

## Introduction

> So far, we have been building our React applications without any navigation -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, we have been building our React applications without any navigation —
```

everything in the app has lived at the same URL. Currently, we can make it look
like we are changing the page by showing or hiding different components, but
none of these changes are dependent on a change in the URL.

Why is this a problem? Well, web addresses are the backbone of the Internet. The
web is just a series of links to other pages, after all.

Let's imagine that we have a React application hosted at `www.loveforsoils.com`
(not a real website) dedicated to sharing knowledge about [soil types][soils].
As developers of this website, we want to provide users with the option to see a
list of our favorite soils. Currently, instead of sharing a link to that list,
we can only provide a link to our "Love for soils" homepage. Users are then
required to interact with our application to see the favorite soil list.

Because our personal opinion on the best soils is so important, we want to

> provide users with the opportunity to go straight to this list of our favorite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow users to go straight to this list of our favorite
```

soils by using the URL `www.loveforsoils.com/favorites`. Enter **React Router**:
a routing library for **React** that allows us to link to specific URLs and
conditionally render components depending on which URL is displayed.

> As mentioned in the previous reading, **React Router** enables _client-side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous lesson, **React Router** enables _client-side
```

routing_ which allows us to render different portions of our webpage using the
[browser's History
API](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/start/concepts#history-and-locations)

> instead of making requests to our server for a new webpage. Instead, our browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of making requests to our server for a new webpage. With client-side routing, our browser
```

renders a new component, and our client-side JavaScript requests any data we
want to display in that component. This is essential for routing in any React

> application, as we only have a single HTML file to serve - that's the nature of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application, as we only have a single HTML file to serve — that's the nature of
```

an SPA.

>**Note** Some web development frameworks that use and expand upon React, like
>`Next.js`, handling routing and rendering a little differently, and start to
>depart from React's traditional client-side SPA implementation. `Remix`, which
>is the React based framework that maintains React Router, still uses React
>Router to handle its routing, but the underlying rendering and re-rendering of
>the application is handled a little differently. When we build a React project
>outside of these additional frameworks, React Router will perform client-side

> >routing in the way we described above.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this note, especially given how long this lesson is. Is there a particular reason you thought we should include it?

Author: I was just throwing it in for overall context. I was partially motivated by the fact that React now no longer suggests making plain React projects, and instead guides people to use these other two frameworks. But I agree that it's unnecessary - if we're looking to trim material, this would be high on my list.

Reviewer: Yeah I get that. Alvee submitted a PR with some language about using frameworks in the Create React App lesson so it'll be covered once that's merged in. I think it's fine to remove it from this lesson

To demonstrate some of the key features of React Router, we have an exercise to

> code along with. We'll be making a _very_ simple social media app - let's dive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code along with. We'll be making a _very_ simple social media app — let's dive
```

into it!

## Code Along

### Setting up our Main Route

To get started, clone down this repo and run `npm install`.

If you open up `src/index.js`, you will see that we are currently rendering our
`Home` component, which will serve as the homepage of our application. `Home` is
rendering a list of user cards displaying existing site users. The data for
users is being imported from our `data.js` file into `Home`.

```jsx
// index.js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";

> import Home from "./pages/Home"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Home from "./pages/Home";
```

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<Home />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<Home />);
```

```

```jsx
// Home.js
import users from "../data";
import UserCard from "../components/UserCard";

function Home() {
  
  const userList = users.map(user =>{

>     return <UserCard key={user.id} {...user}/>

Reviewer: I'm not sure they've seen the spread operator used in this way/this context before. I feel like we've always just passed props by name - do you know? Again, since this is a long lesson I'm concerned about adding any extra complexity

Author: You're write, I don't think we show it in any previous lessons. We can simplify it to just use `user={user}` syntax.

  })

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* NavBar will go here! */ }
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Home!</h1>
        {userList}
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

To start using React Router, we need to install `react-router-dom`:

```console
$ npm install react-router-dom@6
```

> **Note**: make sure to include `@6` at the end of the install command. This

> > walkthrough is designed for version 6 - other versions may have different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> walkthrough is designed for version 6 — other versions may have different
```

> syntax.

To start implementing routes, we first need to import `createBrowserRouter` and
`RouterProvider` from `react-router-dom`:

```jsx

> // .src/index.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// index.js
```

import React from "react";

> import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
```

// Step 1. Import react-router functions
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";

> import Home from "./pages/Home"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Home from "./pages/Home";
```

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<Home />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<Home />);
```

```

`createBrowserRouter` is used to create the router for our application. We'll
pass it an array of route objects as its argument. Each route object will have a

> routing path and a corresponding element that will be rendered on that path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
routing path and a corresponding element to be rendered on that path.
```

```jsx
const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }

> ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]);
```

```

The `RouterProvider` provides the router created by `createBrowserRouter` to our
application, so it can use React-Router's client-side routing.

```jsx
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

```

Let's try it! Copy the code below into `src/index.js` and run `npm start` to
boot up the application. Once it is running, point your URL to

> `http://localhost:3000/`. It should render `Home!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`http://localhost:3000/`. We should still see the home page, but now it's being rendered using React Router!
```

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";

> import Home from "./pages/Home"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Home from "./pages/Home";
```

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }

> ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]);
```

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

```

### Adding Additional Routes

In the last two steps, we learned how to set up our router using
`createBrowserRouter` and `RouterProvider` and add our very first route.

> Next, we want to set up routing for an `About` and `Login` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we want to set up routing for `About` and `Login` pages.
```

First, we'll make two new components within our `pages` directory.

> About.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```jsx

> function About() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// About.js
function About() {
```

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* Save space for NavBar */}
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>This is my about component!</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default About;
```

> Login.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```jsx

> function Login() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Login.js
function Login() {
```

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* Save space for NavBar */}
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Login</h1>
        <form>
          <div>
            <input type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" />
          </div>
          <div>
            <input type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" />
          </div>
          <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
        </form>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default Login;
```

Next, we'll import our new pages into our `index.js` file, and add them as
routes within `createBrowserRouter`:

```jsx
// ./src/index.js
import React from "react";

> import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
```

import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import Home from "./pages/Home";
import About from "./pages/About";
import Login from "./pages/Login";

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />
  }
])

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

```

If you go back to the browser you will see that it looks the same — our `Home`
component is displaying as before. Now try manually typing in the URL locations

> for `/`, `/about`, and `/login`. You should see these new components rendering!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for `/about` and `/login`. You should see these new components rendering!
```

### Links and NavLinks

But what good are routes if users don't know how to navigate to them?

React Router provides two components that allow users to navigate through our
page using client-side routing: `Link` and `NavLink`. They both have the same
base level functionality:

> - They render an `<a>` tag to the DOM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- They render an `<a>` tag to the DOM.
```

Reviewer: Periods are recommended for unordered list items for accessibility reasons

Author: Good to know, thank you!

- When the `<a>` tag is clicked, they change the URL and tell React Router to

>   re-render our routes, displaying the component that matches the new URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  re-render our routes, displaying the component that matches the new URL.
```

- Instead of taking an `href` attribute like normal `<a>` tags, `Link` and

> `NavLink` take a `to` prop that points to the endpoint you want a user to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NavLink` take a `to` prop that points to the endpoint the link should take the user to.
```

> navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

`NavLink` acts as a superset of `Link`, adding a default **active** class **when
it matches the current URL**. `NavLink` works well for creating a navigation
bar, since it allows us to add styling to indicate which link is currently
selected. `Link` is a good option for creating standard hyperlinks. For this
example, we will be using `NavLink`; we will see examples of using `Link` later
on.

```jsx
<NavLink to="/about">About</NavLink>

> ```

Reviewer: Move this snippet below the next paragraph

Author: Change implemented!

For example, this `NavLink` would display "About" and would navigate users to

> our `/about` page when clicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
our `/about` page when clicked:
```

Let's create a new `NavBar` component in the `components` folder to add these
`NavLink`s to our application.

NavBar.js:

```jsx
/* Add NavLink to import */
import { NavLink } from "react-router-dom";

> import "./NavBar.css"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "./NavBar.css";
```

  return (
    <nav>
      <NavLink
        to="/"
        /* add styling to Navlink */
        className="nav-link"
      >
        Home
      </NavLink>
      <NavLink
        to="/about"
        className="nav-link"
      >
        About
      </NavLink>
      <NavLink
        to="/login"
        className="nav-link"
      >
        Login
      </NavLink>
    </nav>
  );
};

export default NavBar;
```

Let's also create a `NavBar.css` file adjacent to our `NavBar` file to add in
some styling:

```css
.nav-link{
    display: inline-block;
    box-sizing: border-box;
    width: 60px;
    padding: 5px;
    margin: 0 6px 6px;
    background: blue;
    text-decoration: none;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: min(10vw, 15px) ;
    color: white;
}
  
.active {
    color: red;
}
```

You can then place your NavBar component in each of your page components to
enable easy navigation between different pages in your application!

Ex:

```jsx
// Home.js
import users from "../data";
import UserCard from "../components/UserCard";
import NavBar from "../components/NavBar";

function Home() {
  
  const userList = users.map(user =>{
    <UserCard key={user.id} {...user}/>

>   })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  });
```

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <NavBar />
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Home!</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

You'll also want to add `NavBar` to your `About` and `Login` components.

> (Does this seem inefficient? Not very DRY? Don't worry - we'll look at a more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Does this seem inefficient? Not very DRY? Don't worry — we'll look at a more
```

efficient way to include a `NavBar` throughout your app in future lessons!)

> Load up the browser again and you should see beautiful blue NavLinks that load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Load up the browser again and you should see beautiful blue `NavLink`s that load
```

up the desired components.

### Dynamic Routes and URL Params

Nice! We're making good progress! But in our social media app, we'll probably
want to see our user profiles. Let's create a new file in `pages` called
`UserProfile.js`. We'll be importing user data from our `data.js` file directly
into that component.

Here's a basic setup for that component:

```jsx
// UserProfile.js
import users from "../data.js";
import NavBar from "../components/NavBar";

function UserProfile() {
  return(
    <>
      <header>
        <NavBar />
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>User Profile</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default UserProfile;
```

We can then add this new component to our router:

```jsx
// index.js
// ...other import statements
import UserProfile from "./pages/UserProfile";

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />
  },
  {
    path: "/profile",
    element: <UserProfile />
  }

> ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]);
```

// ...render statements
```

Ideally, we want to navigate people to this page when they click on one of our
user cards displaying on our homepage.

Let's update our `UserCard` component to use a `Link` from `react-router-dom`:

```jsx
// UserCard.js

> import { Link } from "react-router-dom"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Link } from "react-router-dom";
```

function UserCard({id, name}) {
  return (
    <article>
        <h2>{name}</h2>
        <Link to="/profile">View profile</Link>
    </article>

>   )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  );
```

}

> export default UserCard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default UserCard;
```

```

> Let's test it out! Click on one of those links - you should be navigated to our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's test it out! Click on one of those links — you should be navigated to our
```

`UserProfile` page.

> Hang on - we're navigating successfully, but we're not showing any information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hang on — we're navigating successfully, but we're not showing any information
```

about a particular user. That won't work!

We still want to use our `UserProfile` page to display information about a user.
But we want the _user information_ we're displaying to change.

> This is where **Dynamic Routes** and **URL Parameters** come in - we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where **Dynamic Routes** and **URL Parameters** come in — we can
```

actually use URL routes to pass data!

Let's go back and update our routes to start using dynamic routing and URL
parameters:

```jsx
// index.js
// ...import statements

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />
  },
  {
    path: "/profile/:id",
    element: <UserProfile />
  }

> ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]);
```

// ...render statements
```

> Notice that we added `:id` to the end of our `path` for our `UserProfile` route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we added `/:id` to the end of our `path` for our `UserProfile` route.
```

> This notation creates a `URL parameter` - a segment of our URL that can change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This notation creates a `URL parameter` — a segment of our URL that can change
```

> and that contains data that we can use in our components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and that contains data we can use in our components.
```

By including a URL parameter (or multiple parameters) in a route, we make that

> route _dynamic_ - this single route can actually have many different URLs! For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
route _dynamic_ — this single route can actually have many different URLs! For
```

example, the `/profile/1`, `/profile/2`, and `/profile/3` URLs will all lead to
the same page. That page will just display different information depending on
which URL is used!

Let's update our `UserCard` component to start making use of our dynamic route:

```jsx
// UserCard.js
import {Link} from "react-router-dom";

function UserCard({id, name}) {
  return (
    <article>
        <h2>{name}</h2>
        <p>
          <Link to={`/profile/${id}`}>View profile</Link>
        </p>
    </article>
  );
};

export default UserCard;
```

We've used string interpolation to update the `to` prop of our `Link` component

> from `react-router-dom` to include the `id` of a user being rendered by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to include the `id` of the user corresponding to the link that was clicked.
```

> particular `UserCard` component. Now, when we click on one of these links, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, when we click on one of these links, it
```

will take us to the URL `/profile/<some-user-id>`, which will correspond with
the `/profile/:id` route we set up in our router.

Try it out! You should still see the `UserProfile` component being rendered as

> it was before, but the URl should show the `id` of whichever user you clicked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it was before, but the URL should show the `id` of whichever user you clicked
```

on.

Great! But our `UserProfile` component still isn't displaying specific user
information.

> That's where the last piece of the puzzle comes into play - the `useParams`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's where the last piece of the puzzle comes into play: the `useParams`
```

hook. `useParams` allows us to access the data we've stored in our URL
parameters and use it within our components.

Let's start by importing that into the top of our `UserProfile` component:
`import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom'`.

From there, we can invoke the hook to access the parameters we included in our
URL route: `const params = useParams()`.

If we `console.log` our new `params` variable, we'll see that it's an object.
The keys in the object will be the parameters we defined in our route, and the
values will be whatever we actually entered into our URL.

If we click on `George Orwell's` card for example, our `params` object should
look like this:

```JavaScript
{
  id: "1"
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Suggest modifying the section above (starting at line 559) as follows:

Let's start by importing the hook in our `UserProfile.js` file. We can then invoke the hook inside the function to access the parameters we included in our URL route and save the results to a variable. Let's also add a `console.log` so we can take a look at our new `params` variable:

```js
// UserProfile.js
// ...other import statements
import { useParams } from "react-router-dom";

function UserProfile() {
  const params = useParams();
  console.log(params);
// ...remaining code
```

Go ahead and update `UserProfile.js` as shown above, then click the link for George Orwell and open the Dev Tools. You should see an object logged to the console that looks like this:

```console
{ id: '1' }
```
Note that the key is the parameter we defined in our route, and the value is what appears in the URL.

Author: Great edit, thank you!

Author: This is a big improvement! I made a few changes to your suggestion - I said "component" instead of function, and "parameters" instead of "results". Let me know if you think those changes will cause problems.

Reviewer: Nope, I think that's great!

We can now use the data contained in our params object to access the specific
piece of data we want to display!

```JavaScript

> const user = users.find(user => user.id === parseInt(params.id))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const user = users.find(user => user.id === parseInt(params.id));
```

```

> (Note that we're using `parseInt` in this example - all data passed via URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to use `parseInt` here because all data passed via URL params will be formatted as strings.
```

> params will be a string!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> In applications where your data will be contained in a `db.json` file or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: In this example, we're finding the user we need in a list we imported from the `data.js` file, but normally that will not be the case. If your data is contained in a `db.json` file or
```

> database, you'll likely want to run a `fetch` request within a `useEffect` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> database instead, you'll likely run a `fetch` request to
```

grab the specific piece of data you want from your database.

> Now that we have a way to access the user we want, let's updated our UserProfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a way to access the user we want, let's update our `UserProfile`
```

component to display information about that user!

```jsx
// UserProfile.js
import users from "../data.js";
import { useParams } from "react-router-dom";
import NavBar from "../components/NavBar";

function UserProfile() {
  const params = useParams();

>   const user = users.find(user => user.id === parseInt(params.id))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const user = users.find(user => user.id === parseInt(params.id));
```

  return(
    <>
      <header>
        <NavBar />
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>{user.name}</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default UserProfile;
```

With our component updated, we should now see the correct user displaying when
we navigate to a specific user's profile page! Nice!

>**Note**: You'll want to make sure you set up dynamic routes to work when
>somebody shares a URL to a dynamic endpoint. There are a variety of ways to
>handle this to make sure your app doesn't break when somebody initially loads
>your app on a dynamic endpoint, rather than navigating to it internally. One
>way is to use `fetch` within the component to fetch all requisite data, as
>mentioned previously, but you might find other ways to handle it. Just remember
>that your solution should be legible, performant, and easy to maintain!

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this note. I feel like there isn't enough info about the circumstances under which a problem might occur or enough guidance for figuring out how to fix it. Are there specific issues you're aware of that might crop up? Or is there maybe a source on this we can refer students to?

Author: Yeah, perhaps this is unnecessary. Sometimes React apps aren't configured to load properly when somebody just drops a link into the browser, rather than navigate to a specific page internally. But I agree that we can remove this, as this lesson is already pretty long.

There's not specific solution or example that wouldn't require a very lengthy explanation, so I think we should just trim it.

### Error Handling

Ok great, we've got most of the basic functionality for client-side routing
down! But what if somebody enters a route that doesn't exist? Try entering
`http://localhost:3000/florp` into your browser. Yikes! That's an ugly looking
error page!

> Let's create one more page in our application - ErrorPage.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create one more page in our application: ErrorPage.js.
```

Create this new component within our `pages` folder, then add the following
code:

```jsx

> import NavBar from "../components/NavBar"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import NavBar from "../components/NavBar";
```

import { useRouteError } from "react-router-dom";

function ErrorPage() {
  const error = useRouteError();
  console.error(error);

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <NavBar />
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Whoops! Something went wrong!</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
}

export default ErrorPage;
```

Note that we're importing the `useRouteError` hook in addition to our `NavBar`
component. The `useRouteError` hook allows us to interact with the error itself,

> including the error status and it's message. You can read more about it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including the error status and its message. You can read more about it
```

> [here](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/hooks/use-route-error).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[in the `useRouteError` documentation](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/hooks/use-route-error).
```

Reviewer: This is another accessibility edit

> Now that we have that, we can add this ErrorPage to each of our routes using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have that, we can add this `ErrorPage` to each of our routes using the
```

`errorElement` field within our route objects:

```jsx
// index.js
// ... other import statements

> import ErrorPage from "./pages/ErrorPage"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import ErrorPage from "./pages/ErrorPage";
```

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  },
  {
    path: "/profile/:id",
    element: <UserProfile />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  }

> ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]);
```

// ...render statements

```

> The `errorElement` can handle more than just bad urls - it will redirect your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `errorElement` can handle more than just bad URLs — it will redirect your
```

app toward the provided Error component should any error occur within your main
UI component! For that reason, we'll want to make sure each of our routes has an
appropriate `errorElement`.

> >**Note** If your page generates an Error during development, you will still see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note**: Applications that are created using `create-react-app` have a built-in React Error Overlay used in development mode. If your page generates an error during development, you will still see
```

>the React Error Overlay over your browser page, even with the errorElement
>included. You can see the errorElement by closing the Error Overlay.

### Separation of Concerns

> By this point, everything should be functional (if it's not, try carefully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By this point, everything should be functional. (If it's not, try carefully
```

reviewing any errors you're receiving and double checking your code against the

> example code). But, we could make some _organizational_ improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example code.) But, we could make an _organizational_ improvement.
```

Take a look at our `index.js` file. It's getting pretty long and messy! Instead

> of including all of this routing logic within our index.js file, let's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of including all of this routing logic within our `index.js` file, let's
```

> extrapolate some of it out into a separate file, `routes.js`. This file has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extract some of it out into a separate file, `routes.js`. This file has
```

already been created for you, but you can create it yourself in future projects.

Let's move our array of route objects into this `routes.js` file, and save it in
a variable called `routes`. We can then make our `routes` variable the default

> export for the file. Don't forget import all of the necessary components as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export for the file. Don't forget to import all of the necessary components as
```

well!

```jsx
// routes.js
import Home from "./pages/Home";
import About from "./pages/About";
import Login from "./pages/Login";
import UserProfile from "./pages/UserProfile";
import ErrorPage from "./pages/ErrorPage";

const routes = [
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  },
  {
    path: "/profile/:id",
    element: <UserProfile />,
    errorElement: <ErrorPage />
  }
];

export default routes;
```

Now we just need to make sure we import our `routes` variable back into our

> `index.js` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index.js` file and pass it into `createBrowserRouter`:
```

```jsx
// index.js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import routes from "./routes.js";

> const router = createBrowserRouter(routes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const router = createBrowserRouter(routes);
```

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));

> root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

```

There! Much cleaner! This will also make it easier to run tests on your routes,
as your routing configuration has been separated from the rendering logic of
your app. This is one of many reasons that separation of concerns is so widely
used and so helpful.

## Conclusion

You've now seen all the core functionality of React Router required for
client-side routing. We've met the requirements so that our app can:

- Conditionally render a different component based on the URL (using

>   `createBrowserRouter` and `RouterProvider`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `createBrowserRouter` and `RouterProvider`).
```

- Change the URL using JavaScript, without making a GET request and reloading

>   the HTML document (using the `<Link>` or `<NavLink>` components)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the HTML document (using the `<Link>` or `<NavLink>` components).
```

In the coming lessons, we'll explore more of the advanced functionality provided
by React Router. If you have the time, you should definitely look at the [React

> Router docs][react router docs] - especially the examples - to dive deeper into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Router docs][react router docs] — especially the examples — to dive deeper into
```

React Router's many features and get a better sense of how to use it in an
application.

## Resources

> 

Reviewer: Update the React Router link below to v6

Author: Updated!

To start implementing routes, we first need to import `createBrowserRouter` and
`RouterProvider` from `react-router-dom`:

```jsx
// index.js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
// Step 1. Import react-router functions
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import Home from "./pages/Home";

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<Home />);
```

`createBrowserRouter` is used to create the router for our application. We'll
pass it an array of route objects as its argument. Each route object will have a
routing path and a corresponding element to be rendered on that path.

```jsx
const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }
]);
```

The `RouterProvider` provides the router created by `createBrowserRouter` to our
application, so it can use React-Router's client-side routing.

```jsx
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

Let's try it! Copy the code below into `src/index.js` and run `npm start` to
boot up the application. Once it is running, point your URL to

> `http://localhost:3000/`. We should still see the home page, but now it's being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`http://localhost:3000/`. We should now see the home page,
```

Author: I added instructions to run `npm start` earlier in the reading, so this should no longer be necessary.

> walkthrough is designed for version 6 — other versions may have different
> syntax.

To start implementing routes, we first need to import `createBrowserRouter` and
`RouterProvider` from `react-router-dom`:

```jsx
// index.js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
// Step 1. Import react-router functions
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import Home from "./pages/Home";

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<Home />);
```

`createBrowserRouter` is used to create the router for our application. We'll
pass it an array of route objects as its argument. Each route object will have a
routing path and a corresponding element to be rendered on that path.

```jsx
const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }
]);
```

The `RouterProvider` provides the router created by `createBrowserRouter` to our
application, so it can use React-Router's client-side routing.

```jsx
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

> Let's try it! Copy the code below into `src/index.js` and run `npm start` to

Author: ```suggestion
Let's try it! Copy the code below into `src/index.js` and run `npm start` again if you've closed down your application at any point.
```

> boot up the application. Once it is running, point your URL to

Author: ```suggestion
Once it is running, point your URL to
```

rendered using React Router!

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import Home from "./pages/Home";

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }
]);

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

### Adding Additional Routes

In the last two steps, we learned how to set up our router using
`createBrowserRouter` and `RouterProvider` and add our very first route.

Next, we want to set up routing for `About` and `Login` pages.

First, we'll make two new components within our `pages` directory.

```jsx
// About.js
function About() {
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* Save space for NavBar */}
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>This is my about component!</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default About;
```

```jsx
// Login.js
function Login() {
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* Save space for NavBar */}
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Login</h1>

>         <form>

Reviewer 2: Add the `<label>` tag:

```jsx
function Login() {
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* Save space for NavBar */}
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Login</h1>
        <form>
          <div>
            <label for="username">Username: </label>
            <input id="username" type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" />
          </div>
          <br/>
          <div>
            <label for="password">Password: </label>
            <input id="password" type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" />
          </div>
          <br/>
          <button type="submit">Submit</button>
        </form>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default Login;
```

>the application is handled a little differently. When we build a React project
>outside of these additional frameworks, React Router will perform client-side
>routing in the way we described above.

To demonstrate some of the key features of React Router, we have an exercise to
code along with. We'll be making a _very_ simple social media app — let's dive
into it!

## Code Along

### Setting up our Main Route

To get started, clone down this repo and run `npm install`.

If you open up `src/index.js`, you will see that we are currently rendering our
`Home` component, which will serve as the homepage of our application. `Home` is
rendering a list of user cards displaying existing site users. The data for
users is being imported from our `data.js` file into `Home`.

```jsx
// index.js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import Home from "./pages/Home";

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<Home />);
```

```jsx
// Home.js
import users from "../data";
import UserCard from "../components/UserCard";

function Home() {
  
  const userList = users.map(user =>{
    return <UserCard key={user.id} user={user}/>

>   })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  });
```

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        {/* NavBar will go here! */ }
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Home!</h1>
        {userList}
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

> 

Reviewer: Suggest adding instructions here to run npm start to see the list of users on the home page (to make the sentence on lines 150-51 make sense)

Author: We have language on that line telling students to run `npm start`. Do you think we should move that language up here or keep it where it is?

Reviewer: It's fine where it is, but the "still" in the sentence on lines 141-42 doesn't make sense if that's the first time they're doing it. But we can just edit that sentence instead.

Author: Yeah, good point. I added a sentence telling students to run `npm start` right after we tell them to run `npm install`.

import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { createBrowserRouter, RouterProvider } from "react-router-dom";
import Home from "./pages/Home";
import About from "./pages/About";
import Login from "./pages/Login";

const router = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <Home />
  }, 
  {
    path: "/about",
    element: <About />
  },
  {
    path: "/login",
    element: <Login />
  }
])

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<RouterProvider router={router} />);
```

If you go back to the browser you will see that it looks the same — our `Home`
component is displaying as before. Now try manually typing in the URL locations
for `/about` and `/login`. You should see these new components rendering!

### Links and NavLinks

But what good are routes if users don't know how to navigate to them?

React Router provides two components that allow users to navigate through our
page using client-side routing: `Link` and `NavLink`. They both have the same
base level functionality:

- They render an `<a>` tag to the DOM.
- When the `<a>` tag is clicked, they change the URL and tell React Router to

>   re-render our routes, displaying the component that matches the new URL.

Reviewer: re-render the page?

>   re-render our routes, displaying the component that matches the new URL.

Author: ```suggestion
  re-render the page, displaying the component that matches the new URL.
```

- Instead of taking an `href` attribute like normal `<a>` tags, `Link` and
`NavLink` take a `to` prop that points to the endpoint the link should take the
user to.

`NavLink` acts as a superset of `Link`, adding a default **active** class **when
it matches the current URL**. `NavLink` works well for creating a navigation
bar, since it allows us to add styling to indicate which link is currently
selected. `Link` is a good option for creating standard hyperlinks. For this
example, we will be using `NavLink`; we will see examples of using `Link` later
on.

For example, this `NavLink` would display "About" and would navigate users to
our `/about` page when clicked:

```jsx
<NavLink to="/about">About</NavLink>
```

Let's create a new `NavBar` component in the `components` folder to add these
`NavLink`s to our application.

NavBar.js:

```jsx

> /* Add NavLink to import */

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>{user.name}</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
};

export default UserProfile;
```

With our component updated, we should now see the correct user displaying when
we navigate to a specific user's profile page! Nice!

### Error Handling

Ok great, we've got most of the basic functionality for client-side routing
down! But what if somebody enters a route that doesn't exist? Try entering
`http://localhost:3000/florp` into your browser. Yikes! That's an ugly looking
error page!

Let's create one more page in our application: ErrorPage.js.

Create this new component within our `pages` folder, then add the following
code:

```jsx
import NavBar from "../components/NavBar";
import { useRouteError } from "react-router-dom";

function ErrorPage() {
  const error = useRouteError();
  console.error(error);

  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <NavBar />
      </header>
      <main>
        <h1>Whoops! Something went wrong!</h1>
      </main>
    </>
  );
}

export default ErrorPage;
```

Note that we're importing the `useRouteError` hook in addition to our `NavBar`
component. The `useRouteError` hook allows us to interact with the error itself,

> including the error status and its message. You can read more about it [in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including the error status and its message. You can read more about it in the
```

> `useRouteError`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`useRouteError`
```

Author: Do we not want to link to the documentation for this hook? Or am I doing so incorrectly?

Reviewer: I was just trying to take "in the" out of the link. I probably forgot to click "comment" for that change.

Author: Oh, gotcha! My mistake - thank you!
